<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"
[     <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://branding/locale/brand.dtd" >     %brandDTD;     <!ENTITY % platformDTD SYSTEM "chrome://browser/locale/help/platformStrings.dtd" >     %platformDTD; ]>
<!-- Contributors:   David Tenser <david.tenser@comhem.se> (original author)   Steffen Wilberg <steffen.wilberg@web.de> -->
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta name="generator" content=
"HTML Tidy for Linux (vers 6 November 2007), see www.w3.org" />
<title>Managing Cookies</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href=
"chrome://help/skin/helpFileLayout.css" />
</head>
<body>
<h1>Managing Cookies</h1>
<p>This document explains what cookies are, how they are used, and
how you can gain control over the cookies stored on your computer
by using the Cookie Manager in &amp;brandFullName;.</p>
<div class="contentsBox">In this section:
<ul>
<li><a href="#what_is_a_cookie">What is a Cookie?</a></li>
<li><a href="#setting_up_cookie_rules">Setting Up Cookie
Rules</a></li>
<li><a href="#accepting_and_blocking_cookies">Accepting and
Blocking Cookies</a></li>
<li><a href="#cookies_exceptions">The Cookies Exceptions
Window</a></li>
<li><a href="#view_cookies">The View Cookies Window</a></li>
</ul>
</div>
<h2 id="what_is_a_cookie">What is a Cookie?</h2>
<p>A cookie is a file created by an Internet site to store
information on your computer, such as your preferences when
visiting that site. When you visit a site that uses cookies, the
site might ask &amp;brandShortName; to place one or more cookies on
your hard disk.</p>
<p>Later, when you return to the site, &amp;brandShortName; sends
back the cookies that belong to the site. This allows the site to
present you with information customized to fit your needs.</p>
<p>Cookies can also store personally identifiable information.
Personally identifiable information is information that can be used
to identify or contact you, such as your name, e-mail address, home
or work address, or telephone number. However, a web site only has
access to the personal information that you provide. For example, a
web site cannot determine your e-mail address unless you provide
it. Also, a web site cannot gain access to other information on
your computer.</p>
<p>When you use the default cookie settings, this activity is
invisible to you, and you won't know when a web site is setting a
cookie or when &amp;brandShortName; is sending a web site its
cookie. However, you can set your cookies &amp;pref.plural; so that
you will be asked before a cookie is set. You can also restrict the
lifetime of cookies to your current &amp;brandShortName;
session.</p>
<h2 id="setting_up_cookie_rules">Setting Up Cookie Rules</h2>
<p>By default &amp;brandShortName; accepts all cookies, including
cookies which would allow a site to recognize you effectively
forever. If this doesn't suit you, you can tell
&amp;brandShortName; to delete all cookies when you close
&amp;brandShortName;:</p>
<ol>
<li>Select &amp;pref.menuPath; and open the <em>Privacy</em>
panel.</li>
<li>Select the <em>I close &amp;brandShortName;</em>
&amp;pref.singular; from the <em>Keep until</em> menu.</li>
</ol>
<p>If you want to grant sites you trust the ability to store
cookies permanently (e.g., to allow you to log in automatically to
a site), click <a href=
"#cookies_exceptions"><em>Exceptions&acirc;&euro;&brvbar;</em></a>,
enter the site address, and click <em>Allow</em>.</p>
<h3 id="all_the_settings">All the Settings</h3>
<p>These are the &amp;pref.plural; that affect how cookies are
managed by &amp;brandShortName;:</p>
<dl>
<dt>Accept cookies from sites</dt>
<dd>
<p>If you don't want any sites to store cookies on your computer,
uncheck this &amp;pref.singular;. Note that some sites may not work
properly when cookies are disabled. If you want to grant certain
sites the ability to store cookies, open the <a href=
"#cookies_exceptions">Cookies Exceptions</a> window by clicking
<em>Exceptions&acirc;&euro;&brvbar;</em>, enter the site address,
and click <em>Allow</em> or <em>Allow for Session</em>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>Keep until</dt>
<dd>
<ul>
<li><em>they expire</em><br />
If this &amp;pref.singular; is selected, each cookie will be
removed when the site that set it has determined the cookie should
expire.</li>
<li><em>I close &amp;brandShortName;</em><br />
If this &amp;pref.singular; is selected, cookies will be removed
when you restart &amp;brandShortName;. Web sites requiring the use
of cookies will still work, but if you restart
&amp;brandShortName;, the web site will think that you logged into
the site for the first time again.</li>
<li><em>ask me every time</em><br />
Display an alert every time a web site tries to store a cookie
asking you if you want that cookie stored.</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
<h2 id="accepting_and_blocking_cookies">Accepting and Blocking
Cookies</h2>
<p>If you've chosen <em>ask me every time</em> from the <em>Keep
until</em> menu, you'll see a dialog whenever a site tries to store
a cookie on your computer providing the following options:</p>
<dl>
<dt>Allow</dt>
<dd>To allow this particular cookie, just click <em>Allow</em>. Use
this if you trust the site.</dd>
<dt>Allow for Session</dt>
<dd>If you want to allow this cookie for now, but have it deleted
when you exit &amp;brandShortName;, click <em>Allow for
Session</em>. Use this if the site doesn't work without cookies,
but you don't want to have a permanent cookie stored for it.</dd>
<dt>Deny</dt>
<dd>If you don't want this cookie to be stored, click
<em>Deny</em>. Use this if you don't trust the site or suspect that
it's compromising your privacy.</dd>
<dt>Use my choice for all cookies from this site</dt>
<dd>Select this checkbox before clicking any of the buttons if you
want &amp;brandShortName; to remember your decision and not ask
again. The site will be added to the <a href=
"#cookies_exceptions">Cookie Exceptions</a> window, where you can
revert your choice should you wish to do so later.</dd>
</dl>
<h2 id="cookies_exceptions">The Cookies Exceptions Window</h2>
<p>Access this window by clicking the
<em>Exceptions&acirc;&euro;&brvbar;</em> button in cookies
&amp;pref.plural;. Here you can make exceptions from your general
cookies &amp;pref.plural; for specific sites. Using exceptions, you
can allow all cookies, reject all cookies, or allow all cookies but
have them deleted when you exit &amp;brandShortName;, regardless of
your other cookie settings.</p>
<p>To add a site to this list, simply type the site's domain name
in the field labeled <em>Address of web site</em>. Then click
<em>Block</em> to reject cookies from the site, click
<em>Allow</em> to allow cookies from the site, or click <em>Allow
for Session</em> to allow cookies from the site but have them
deleted when you exit &amp;brandShortName;.</p>
<p>To remove a site from this list, select it and click <em>Remove
Site</em>. To clear the list completely, click <em>Remove All
Sites</em>. This will clear the exceptions list so your general
cookies &amp;pref.plural; apply.</p>
<h2 id="view_cookies">The View Cookies Window</h2>
<p>Use the <em>View Cookies</em> window to view and remove cookies.
To access it, click the <em>View Cookies</em> button in cookies
&amp;pref.plural;.</p>
<p>This window lists all cookies currently stored on your computer,
grouped by site. You can expand the sites and select a cookie to
display more information about it. You can also search for a site
or a cookie name by typing in the search bar.</p>
<p>To remove a cookie from the list, select it and click <em>Remove
Cookie</em>. To remove a site's cookies, select the site and click
<em>Remove Cookie(s)</em>. To wipe all cookies, click <em>Remove
All Cookies</em>.</p>
<div class="contentsBox"><em>12 September 2006</em></div>
<p>Copyright &copy; &amp;copyright.years; Contributors to the
Mozilla Help Viewer Project.</p>
</body>
</html>
