<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"[
    <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://branding/locale/brand.dtd" >
    %brandDTD;
    <!ENTITY % platformDTD SYSTEM "chrome://browser/locale/help/platformStrings.dtd" >
    %platformDTD;
]>
<!--
Contributors:
  David Tenser <tenser@comhem.se> (original author)
  Steffen Wilberg <steffen.wilberg@web.de>
  Ryan Flint <rflint@dslr.net>
  Jeff Walden <jwalden+code@mit.edu>
  Myk Melez <myk@mozilla.org>
-->
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>A &brandFullName; beállításai</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="chrome://help/skin/helpFileLayout.css"/>
</head>

<body>

<h1>A &brandFullName; beállításai</h1>
<p>This document explains all of the &pref.plural; available in the
  &pref.pluralCaps; window of &brandFullName;.</p>

<div class="contentsBox">A fejezet témakörei:
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#main_options">Fő beállítások</a></li>
    <li><a href="#tabs_options">Tabs &pref.pluralCaps;</a></li>
    <li><a href="#content_options">Tartalomra vonatkozó beállítások</a></li>
    <li><a href="#applications_options">Applications &pref.pluralCaps;</a></li>
    <li><a href="#privacy_options">Adatvédelmi beállítások</a></li>
    <li><a href="#security_options">Biztonsági beállítások</a></li>
    <li><a href="#advanced_options">Haladó beállítások</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

<h2 id="main_options">Fő beállítások</h2>

  <h3 id="startup">Elindítás</h3>
  <p>A &brandShortName; elindításakor a <a
    href="glossary.xhtml#home_page">kezdőlap</a> jelenik meg.  A kezdőlap lehet
    egy gyakran meglátogatott weboldal, egy keresőszolgáltatás, esetleg egy e-mail
    fiók, tetszés szerint.  Ebben a részben beállíthatjuk a kezdőlapot, vagy
    egy kezdőlapcsoportot.</p>
    
  <p><em>A &brandShortName; elindításakor</em><br/>
    By default, when &brandShortName; starts it opens your home page (listed in
    the textbox immediately below), which corresponds to the <em>Show my home
    page</em> option.  Alternately, you can choose to display a blank page on
    startup (perhaps to eliminate the time required to load that page from the
    Internet) by selecting the <em>Show a blank page</em> option.</p>

  <p>As a final alternative, you can have &brandShortName; reopen the windows and
    tabs you had open the last time you ran &brandShortName;, effectively
    restoring you to where you were when you last stopped browsing the Internet.
    This can be a handy way of saving what you were doing when you close
    &brandShortName;, perhaps to install an operating system update.  You can
    choose this option by selecting <em>Show my windows and tabs from last
    time</em>.</p>

  <p><em>Kezdőlap</em><br/>
    If you've set &brandShortName; to show your home page when you start
    &brandShortName;, you specify your home page by typing it here.  You can
    also click any of the buttons below the textbox to choose a special home
    page:</p>

  <ul>
    <li><em>Use Current Page</em> sets the currently-displayed page (or pages,
      if you have multiple tabs open) as your home page</li>
    <li><em>Use Bookmark</em> sets the selected bookmark (or if you select a
      folder, the set of bookmarks in that folder) as your home page</li>
    <li><em>Restore to Default</em> resets your home page to the default home
      page</li>
  </ul>

  <h3 id="downloads">Letöltések</h3>
  <p>This section contains &pref.plural; determining how &brandShortName;
    downloads files.</p>
    
  <p><em>Show the Downloads window when downloading a file</em><br/>
    With this &pref.singular; selected, &brandShortName; will open the <a
    href="download_manager.xhtml">Downloads window</a> when you start
    downloading a file.</p>
    
  <p><em>Close it when all downloads are finished</em><br/>
    Select this &pref.singular; to have &brandShortName; close the Downloads
    window when all downloads currently in progress finish.</p>
      
  <p><em id="download_folder">Save files to</em><br/>
    By default downloaded files are automatically saved to the Desktop,
    eliminating the hassle of specifying a download location for every file you
    download.  You can choose a different folder by clicking the <em><span
    class="noMac">Browse…</span><span class="mac">Choose…</span></em>
    button.</p>
      
  <p><em>Always ask me where to save files</em><br/>
    With this &pref.singular; selected, &brandShortName; will ask you where
    you would like to save every downloaded file (instead of using the default
    location specified above).</p>
  
  <h3 id="system_defaults">Rendszer alapbeállításai</h3>
  <p><em>Always check to see if &brandShortName; is the default browser on
    startup</em><br/>
    Select this option if you want &brandShortName; to check whether it is the
    default browser at startup.  This will ensure &brandShortName; is used
    whenever an application tries to display a web page.  Az <em>Ellenőrzés</em> gombra kattintva azonnal ellenőrizhetjük, hogy
      alapértelmezett-e a &brandShortName;.</p>

  <h3 id="addons">Kiegészítők</h3>
  <p><em>Manage Add-ons</em><br/>
    To install or uninstall, update or configure add-ons, click the <em>Manage
    Add-ons</em> button to open the Add-ons manager. This is also accessible
    from <span class="menuPath">Tools &gt; Add-ons</span>. A detailed
    description of add-ons and the Add-on manager is available <a href=
    "customization.xhtml#add_ons">here</a>.</p>

<h2 id="tabs_options">Tabs &pref.pluralCaps;</h2>
<p><em>New pages should be opened in:</em><br/>
  This &pref.singular; controls whether links from other applications or from
  web pages which request to open them in new windows are opened in <em>a new
  window</em> or <em>a new tab</em> in the most recent window.</p>

<p><strong>Note:</strong> If you have chosen to open pages in new tabs,
  &brandShortName; will ignore this &pref.singular; and will open a new window
  from a link if the page author specified that the new window should have a
  specific size, because some pages can only be displayed correctly at a
  specific size.</p>
  
<p><em>Warn me when closing multiple tabs</em><br/>
  When you close a window with multiple tabs, &brandShortName; will ask you
  to confirm your choice. This prevents you from accidentally closing the
  whole window when you intended to only close the current tab. Uncheck this
  &pref.singular; to disable this warning and have &brandShortName;
  automatically close the window.</p>

<p><em>Warn me when opening multiple tabs might slow down
  &brandShortName;</em><br/>
  When you open a large number of tabs at once, &brandShortName; will ask you
  to confirm your choice. This prevents you from accidentally slowing down
  your system while the pages are loading.  Uncheck this &pref.singular; to
  disable this warning.</p>
  
<p><em>Always show the tab bar</em><br/>
  If you're only viewing one web page in a &brandShortName; window, the tab
  bar is not normally shown. Check this &pref.singular; to always show the tab
  bar, including when only the &brandShortName; window contains only one
  page.</p>

<p><em>When I open a link in a new tab, switch to it immediately</em><br/>
  When you middle-click on a Web link (or hold down &accelKey; while clicking
  with the left mouse button), the page will be opened in a new tab. That page
  will not be displayed and will load in a background tab. Check this
  &pref.singular; to load and display the page in a new foreground tab
  instead.</p>


<h2 id="content_options">Tartalomra vonatkozó beállítások</h2>
<p><em>Block Pop-up Windows</em><br/>
  By default, &brandShortName; blocks annoying pop-up windows on web sites.
  Unchecking this &pref.singular; will disable pop-up blocking.</p>

<p>Some web sites make legitimate use of pop-up windows. Therefore, you can
  allow these sites to open pop-ups anyway. To do so, click
  <em>Exceptions…</em>, enter the site name, and click <em>Allow</em>.  Ha egy webhelyet el szeretnénk távolítani a listából, jelöljük ki, majd kattintsunk a <em>Webhely eltávolítása</em> gombra. Az egész lista törléséhez kattintsunk a
  <em>Minden webhely eltávolítása</em> gombra.</p>

<p><em>Load images automatically</em><br/>
  &brandShortName; displays images in web pages by default.  Uncheck this
  &pref.singular; to disable images in web pages.</p>

<p>If you enable loading images automatically, the <em>Exceptions…</em>
  button lets you select sites from which images will not automatically load.
  The <em>Exceptions…</em> button lets you specify web sites that you wish
  to load (or not load) regardless of the setting of this preference. In the
  exceptions list, enter the site from which you want to allow or block images
  and click <em>Allow</em> to allow images, or click <em>Block</em> to block
  the images.</p>
  
<p><em>JavaScript engedélyezése</em><br/>
  JavaScript is a scripting language commonly used to make web pages
  interactive.  However, it also makes certain annoying behaviors much easier to
  perform.  To disable JavaScript, uncheck this &pref.singular;.  However, note
  that disabling JavaScript may cause some sites to not work properly.  For more
  fine-grained control over what JavaScript can and cannot do, click
  <em>Advanced…</em>.</p>
    
  <h4 id="advanced_javascript">Haladó JavaScript-beállítások</h4>
  <dl>
    <dt>Létező ablakok áthelyezése vagy átméretezése</dt>
    <dd>Távolítsuk el a pipát a jelölőnégyzetből, ha meg szeretnénk tiltani a szkripteknek
      az ablakok átméretezését vagy áthelyezését.</dd>

    <dt>Ablakok előtérbe vagy háttérbe helyezése</dt>
    <dd>Uncheck this &pref.singular; to make sure scripts cannot raise (bring
      to the front) or lower (send to the back) windows.</dd>

    <dt>Előugró menük letiltása vagy cseréje</dt>
    <dd>Távolítsuk el a pipát a jelölőnégyzetből, ha meg szeretnénk tiltani a szkripteknek
      a &brandShortName; előugró menüinek tiltását vagy cseréjét.</dd>

    <dt>Állapotsor elrejtése</dt>
    <dd>Uncheck this &pref.singular; to force the status bar to be displayed in
      pop-up windows.</dd>

    <dt>Állapotsor szövegének megváltoztatása</dt>
    <dd>Uncheck this &pref.singular; to disable changes to status bar text (such
      as displaying scrolling text messages or preventing the link address from
      being displayed while the mouse is over a link).</dd>
  </dl>
    
  <p><em>Java engedélyezése</em><br/>
    Java is a popular programming language for the Web.  A single Java program
    can run on many different kinds of computers, thus avoiding the need for
    programmers to create a separate version of a program for each kind of
    computer.  Távolítsuk el a pipát a jelölőnégyzetből, ha nem szeretnénk engedélyezni a Java használatát
    a &brandShortName;ban.  A Java-kisalkalmazások működéséhez szükség van a Java bővítmény telepítésére
    is.</p>

  <h3 id="fonts_and_colors">Betűk és színek</h3>
  <p><em>Default font</em> and <em>Size</em><br/>
    Web pages are usually displayed in the font and size specified here.
    However, web pages can override these choices unless you specify otherwise
    in the Fonts dialog.  Click the <em>Advanced…</em> button to access the
    Fonts dialog and to change this and other fonts &pref.plural;.</p>

    <h4 id="fonts_dialog">Fonts Dialog</h4>
    <ol>
      <li>A <em>Kódolás</em> legördülő listából válasszunk nyelvcsoportot/írásrendszert.  Például ha a magyar nyelvre (Latin-2) vonatkozó alapértelmezett betűtípusokat szeretnénk beállítani,
          válasszuk a <em>Közép-európai</em> opciót. For a
        language/script not in the list, choose <em>Other Languages</em>.</li>
      <li>Jelöljük be, hogy a proporcionális szöveg talpas (ilyen a Times New Roman) vagy talpatlan (ilyen az Arial) betűkészlettel jelenjen-e meg. Ezután adjuk meg a proporcionális szöveg betűméretét.</li>
      <li>Állítsuk be, milyen betűtípust szeretnénk használni a talpas, talpatlan és fix szélességű betűkhöz.
        A <code>Fix
szélességű szövegek</code> méretét is megváltoztathatjuk.</li>
    </ol>

    <p>You can also set the minimum web page font size.  This is useful to
      prevent sites from use overly small fonts that are barely readable.</p>

    <p><em>Az oldalak a saját maguk által kiválasztott betűket használhatják a fent megadottak helyett</em><br/>
      Alapértelmezésként a &brandShortName; a weboldalak szerkesztője által meghatározott
        betűtípust használja, ha van ilyen. Ha eltávolítjuk a pipát a jelölőnégyzetből, mindig az
        itt megadott betűtípussal böngészhetjük az internetet.</p>

    <p><em>Karakterkódolás</em><br/>
      A &brandShortName; az itt megadott karakterkódolást fogja használni, ha a megtekintett oldal nem ad meg mást.</p>

    <h4 id="colors_dialog">Colors Dialog</h4>
    <p><strong>Szöveg és háttér</strong><br/>
      Itt a weboldalak megjelenítéséhez - erre
vonatkozó, az oldal által megadott információ híján - használt alapértelmezett
szöveg- és háttérszín változtatható meg. Színek kiválasztásához kattintsunk a színmintákra.</p>

    <p><em>Rendszerszínek használata</em><br/>
      Check this &pref.singular; to use the colors defined in your operating
      system settings instead of the colors specified above.</p>

    <p><strong>Hivatkozás színei</strong><br/>
      Itt a hivatkozások színeit változtathatja meg. Színek kiválasztásához kattintsunk a színmintákra.</p>

    <p><em>Hivatkozások aláhúzása</em><br/>
      A hivatkozások alapértelmezésként aláhúzva jelennek meg a weboldalakon. E beállítás kikapcsolásához távolítsuk el a kijelölést a kapcsolóból. Sok oldal saját formázási beállításokat alkalmaz, ennek a beállításnak nincs hatása az ilyenekre.</p>

    <p><em>Az oldalak a saját maguk által kiválasztott színeket használhatják a fent megadottak helyett</em><br/>
      Alapértelmezésként a &brandShortName; a weboldal készítője által használt színeket használja. Ha eltávolítjuk a pipát a jelölőnégyzetből, mindig az
        itt megadott színek használatával böngészhetjük az internetet.</p>

  <h3 id="languages">Nyelvek</h3>
  <p>A weboldalak néha több nyelven is elérhetőek. Click the
    <em>Choose…</em> button to specify your preferred language or
    languages.</p>

  <p><strong>Languages Dialog</strong><br/>
    To add a language, click <em>Select a language to add…</em>, choose the
    language, and click the <em>Add</em> button.  Nyelv eltávolításához válasszuk ki a már használt nyelvek listájából az
eltávolítani kívántat, és kattintsunk az <em>Eltávolítás</em>
gombra. You can also reorder languages using the <em>Move
    Up</em> and <em>Move Down</em> buttons to determine the most preferred one
    in case a page is provided in multiple languages .</p>

<h2 id="applications_options">Applications &pref.pluralCaps;</h2>

<p>The <em>Applications</em> panel lets you choose applications and other
  handlers to handle different types of content (e.g. PDF documents).  It shows
  you a list of content types and lets you select a handler for each type.</p>

<p>You can choose a local application to handle any type.  For some types,
  you can also choose a web application to handle the type, choose a feature
  (like <a href="glossary.xhtml#live_bookmark">Live Bookmarks</a> for feeds)
  or a <a href="glossary.xhtml#Plugin">plugin</a> in &brandShortName; to handle
  the type, or save the type on your computer.</p>

<p>To choose a handler for a type, select the type from the list. The current
  handler for the type will turn into a menu. Open the menu and select the
  handler you want to handle the type.</p>

<ul>
  <li><em>Choose an application</em><br/>
    To choose a local or web application to handle a type, select the application
    from the menu.  If you want a local application that is not in the menu
    to handle the type, select <em>Choose Application…</em> from the menu
    and point &brandShortName; to its location.</li>

  <li><em>Choose a feature or plugin</em><br/>
    If you want a feature or a plugin in &brandShortName; to handle the type,
    and one is available, select it from the menu.</li>

  <li><em>Save on your computer</em><br/>
    If you want to save the type on your computer, and it is possible to do so,
    select <em>Save File</em> from the menu.  If you have selected the <em>Save
    files to</em> &pref.singular; in the <em>Main</em> panel, &brandShortName;
    will save content of the type on your computer automatically.  Otherwise,
    when you encounter the type, &brandShortName; will prompt you for a location
    on your computer to save it to.</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Note:</strong> When a plugin is available to handle a type, and you
  choose another handler to handle that type, &brandShortName; will only use
  your chosen handler when you access the type directly.  When the type is
  embedded inside a web page, &brandShortName; will continue to use the plugin
  to handle the type.</p>


<h2 id="privacy_options">Adatvédelmi beállítások</h2>

  <h3 id="privacy_history">Előzmények</h3>
  <p><em>Remember visited pages for the last … days</em><br/>
    Itt határozhatjuk meg, hány napig emlékezzen a &brandShortName; a
       meglátogatott oldalakra. Az alapértelmezett beállítás 9
nap.</p>
      
  <p><em>Remember what I enter in forms and the search bar</em><br/>
    When you enter information in web forms or the search bar in
    &brandShortName;, that information is saved so that &brandShortName; can
    give suggestions when you enter information in forms in the future. E viselkedés kikapcsolásához távolítsuk el
      a pipát a jelölőnégyzetből.</p>
      
  <p><em>Remember what I've downloaded</em><br/>
    This &pref.singular; controls whether or not past downloads show up in the
    Downloads window.  The Downloads window (accessible from <span
    class="menuPath">Tools</span> or by pressing <span
    class="noUnix">&accelKey;+<kbd>J</kbd></span><span
    class="unix">&accelKey;+<kbd>Y</kbd></span>) displays a list of your recent
    downloads.  Downloads &pref.plural; are available in the <a
    href="#main_options"><em>Main</em></a> panel.</p>

  <h3 id="privacy_cookies">Sütik</h3>
  <p>A cookie is a file created by a web site that stores information on your
    computer, such as site-specific preferences when visiting that site.</p>

  <p><em>Accept cookies from sites</em><br/>
    Alapértelmezés szerint a sütik engedélyezve vannak. Távolítsuk el a pipát a
      jelölőnégyzetből, ha nem szeretnénk engedélyezni a sütik használatát. Fontos tudni, hogy néhány oldal nem működik megfelelően, ha
    a sütik használata nem engedélyezett.</p>
      
  <p><em>Keep until:</em></p>

  <ul>
    <li><em>they expire</em><br/>
      Ez az alapbeállítás. When set, this allows websites to
      specify how long a cookie will be stored by &brandShortName;. This makes
      it possible for a site to remember your preferences and login information
      across browser sessions.</li>
    <li><em>I close &brandShortName;</em><br/>
      With this &pref.singular; selected, &brandShortName; will remove all
      stored cookies when closed.</li>
    <li><em>megerősítés minden alkalommal</em><br/>
      With this &pref.singular; enabled, &brandShortName; will ask you how long
      you would like to keep a cookie (or refuse it entirely) every time a web
      site attempts to set one.</li>
  </ul>

  <p>To control which sites may or may not set cookies, click the
    <em>Exceptions…</em> button.</p>
      
  <p>To display the Cookie Manager click <em>Show Cookies…</em>.</p>

  <p>A sütikről további információkat találunk a <a href="cookies.xhtml">Sütik kezelése</a> című
      súgóoldalon. Innen kiderül, hogyan lehet egyesével szabályozni a sütiket, és hogyan szabályozhatjuk a sütiket elhelyező webhelyek viselkedését.</p>
      
  <h3 id="private_data">Személyes adatok</h3>
  <p><em>Always clear my private data when I close &brandShortName;</em><br/>
    You can choose to have &brandShortName; clear your private data when you
    close it. To configure what data is cleared, click the <em>Settings…</em>
    button.</p>
    
  <p><em>Ask me before clearing private data</em><br/>
    With this &pref.singular; selected, &brandShortName; will ask you before
    before automatically clearing the data specified by clicking
    <em>Settings…</em>.</p>
  
  <p>If you wish to clear your private data right now, you can click the
    <em>Clear Now…</em> button to do so.  To clear your private data from
    outside the preferences dialog, either press &accelKey;+&shiftKey;+<kbd>Del</kbd>
    or select <span class="menuPath">Tools &gt; Clear Private Data…</span>.</p>


<h2 id="security_options">Security &pref.pluralCaps;</h2>
<p><em>Warn me when sites try to install add-ons</em><br/>
  &brandShortName; will always ask you to confirm installations of add-ons.
  To prevent unrequested installation prompts which may lead to accidental
  installations, &brandShortName; warns you when a web site tries to install
  an add-on and blocks the installation prompt.  To allow installations from
  a specific site, click <em>Exceptions…</em>, enter the site name, and click
  <em>Allow</em>.  A beállítás törlésével letilthatjuk a figyelmeztetést
    minden webhelyhez.</p>

<p id="phishing"><em>Tell me if the site I'm visiting is a suspected forgery</em><br/>
  Check this &pref.singular; if you want &brandShortName; to actively check
  whether the site you are visiting may be an attempt to mislead you into
  providing personal information (this is often referred to as <em>phishing</em>).<br/>
  Note that the absence of a warning does not guarantee that a site is trustworthy.
  If you come across a "phishing" site which is not marked as such, please report
  it using <span class="menuPath">Help &gt; Report Web Forgery…</span>, as
  explained in the <a href="menu_reference.xhtml#web_forgery">menu reference</a>.</p>

<p><em>Check using a downloaded list of suspected sites</em><br/>
  With this &pref.singular; selected, &brandShortName; will check the current
  site against a frequently updated list stored on your computer.  No data about
  the sites you visit is transferred to third-party anti-phishing providers
  during normal browsing.  Since phishing techniques and sites evolve quickly,
  this mode of protection may not be as effective as having an anti-phishing
  provider check every site you visit.</p>

<p><em>Check by asking … about each site I visit</em><br/>
  With this &pref.singular; selected, &brandShortName; will send the address of
  the current page over an encrypted connection to the selected third-party
  anti-phishing provider in order to verify its identity. This method offers the
  greatest protection, but information such as your IP address and browser
  version may be transfered and stored by the selected provider. You will be
  prompted to review and agree to the selected data provider's privacy policy
  after selecting this &pref.singular;.</p>
      
  <h3 id="security_passwords">Jelszavak</h3>
  <p><em>Remember passwords for sites</em><br/>
    A &brandShortName; képes biztonságosan menteni a webes űrlapokon
      beírt jelszavakat, megkönnyítve ezzel az oldalakra történő bejelentkezést.  Távolítsuk el a pipát a jelölőnégyzetből, ha nem szeretnénk, hogy a &brandShortName;
      emlékezzen jelszavainkra.</p>
    
    <p>Even with this &pref.singular; checked, however, you'll still be asked
    whether to save passwords for a site when you first visit it.  If you select
    <em>Never for This Site</em>, that site will be added to an exceptions list.
    To access that list or to remove sites from it, click the
    <em>Exceptions…</em> button.</p>

  <p id="set_change_master_password"><em>Use a master password</em><br/>
    &brandShortName; can protect sensitive information such as saved passwords
    and certificates by encrypting them using a <a
    href="glossary.xhtml#master_password">master password</a>.  If you create a
    master password, each time you start &brandShortName;, it will ask you to enter
    the password the first time it needs to access a certificate or stored
    password. You can set, change, or remove the master password by
    by checking or unchecking this &pref.singular; or by clicking the
    <em>Change Master Password…</em> button.  If a master password is already
    set, you will need to enter it in order to change or remove the master password.</p>

  <p><em>Show Passwords…</em><br/>
    Újraszervezheti már mentett jelszavait, vagy törölheti csak az egyiküket, ha a <em>Mentett jelszavak megtekintése</em> gombra kattint.</p>
  
  <h3 id="warning_messages">Figyelmeztetések</h3>
  <p>Click the <em>Settings…</em> button to configure the security warnings
    &brandShortName; displays while you browse the web.</p>
    
    <h4>Security Warnings Dialog</h4>
    <!--XXX massive suck!  do these provide *any* value whatsoever? -->
    <dl>
      <dt>I am about to view an encrypted page</dt>
      <dd>When this &pref.singular; is enabled, &brandShortName; will notify you
        every time you are about to view an encrypted page.</dd>

      <dt>I am about to view a page that uses low-grade encryption</dt>
      <dd>With this &pref.singular; enabled, &brandShortName; will warn you when
        you visit a page which uses low-grade encryption.</dd>

      <dt>I leave an encrypted page for one that isn't encrypted</dt>
      <dd>With this &pref.singular; enabled, &brandShortName; will warn you
        every time you move from an encrypted page to an unencrypted page either
        by selecting a link on the page, selecting a bookmark or typing a new
        address into the location bar.</dd>

      <dt>I submit information that's not encrypted</dt>
      <dd>When this &pref.singular; is enabled, &brandShortName; will warn you
        when you submit data via a form that's not encrypted.</dd>
  
      <dt>I'm about to view an encrypted page that contains some unencrypted
        information</dt>
      <dd>With this &pref.singular; enabled, &brandShortName; will warn you when
        the page you're viewing contains a mixture of encrypted and
        unencrypted content. If an encrypted page contains unencrypted data,
        you should verify the identity of the page you're viewing prior to
        entering sensitive data.</dd>
    </dl>


<h2 id="advanced_options">Haladó beállítások</h2>
<p>The advanced panel contains many &pref.plural; that are less likely to be
  used by most people but are useful and sometimes critical &pref.plural; for
  some people.</p>

  <h3 id="advanced_general">Általános panellap</h3>
    <h4 id="accessibility">Kisegítő lehetőségek</h4>
    <p><em>Always use the cursor keys to navigate within pages</em><br/>
      When this &pref.singular; is enabled, &brandShortName; will display a
      movable cursor in web pages, allowing you to select text with the
      keyboard.  Ez a funkció ki- és bekapcsolható az <kbd>F7</kbd> billentyű
        használatával is.</p>

    <p><em>Search for text when I start typing</em><br/>
      Ha ez a funkció engedélyezett, a &brandShortName; keresni kezd az épp megjelenített
        weboldalon, amint gépelni kezdünk. Keresés közben az ablak alján megjelenik a
        Keresés eszköztár, mely segítségével információhoz juthatunk a találatokról.</p>

    <h4 id="browsing">Böngészés</h4>
    <p><em>Automatikus görgetés</em><br/>
      Autoscrolling is a useful feature which allows you to scroll the page by
      clicking the middle mouse button (usually the scroll wheel) and moving the
      mouse up or down. Néhány embert ez idegesít, ezért ezen
        a helyen kikapcsolhatjuk a funkciót.</p>

    <p><em>Finom görgetés</em><br/>
      A finom görgetés különösen a sok hosszú oldalt olvasóknak hasznos.
      Normális esetben,
amikor megnyomjuk a <kbd>Page Down</kbd>
billentyűt, a megjelenített lap egy oldallal lejjebb ugrik. With smooth scrolling, it slides down smoothly, so you can
      see how much it scrolls. Így láthatjuk, mekkora elmozdulás történt, és
        könnyebben megtalálhatjuk, hol tartottunk.</p>
        
    <p><em>Check my spelling as I type</em><br/>
      When this preference is enabled, &brandShortName; will check your spelling
      and offer possible corrections as you type in web forms.  Note that you
      may need to download a dictionary; to do so, <span
      class="noMac">right-click</span><span class="mac">press &ctrlKey; and
      click</span> on any text field, enable spellchecking if necessary, and
      then use the provided <span class="menuPath">Languages</span> menu to
      download a dictionary.</p>

  <h3 id="advanced_network">Network tab</h3>

    <h4 id="connection_settings">Kapcsolat</h4>
    <p>Sok cégnél és internetszolgáltatónál elérhető vagy kötelező a proxy szolgáltatás.  A proxy a számítógép és az internet közötti összekötő kapocs szerepét játssza.  Minden a számítógéptől az internet felé irányuló kérdést felfog, és megnézi, hogy
      tudja-e teljesíteni a helyi gyorsítótárból.  A proxykat tehát a sebesség növelésére,
      a nem kívánatos tartalmak tiltására és a biztonság növelésére használják: a proxyk képesek
      elrejteni számítógépünket az internet többi tagja elől.  Proxies are often part of corporate firewalls.</p>

    <h4>Connection Settings Dialog</h4>
    <dl>
      <dt>Közvetlen internetkapcsolat</dt>
      <dd>Ez az alapbeállítás. Akkor válasszuk,
ha nem használunk proxyt.</dd>

      <dt>Proxybeállítások automatikus felismerése a hálózatban</dt>
      <dd>Válasszuk ezt a beállítást, ha azt szeretnénk, hogy a &brandShortName; automatikusan
          felismerje a hálózat proxybeállításait.</dd>

      <dt>Kézi proxybeállítás</dt>
      <dd>Ezt akkor válasszuk, ha nincs proxycím (URL). Ask your
        system administrator for the names and port numbers of the servers
        running proxy software for each network service and enter the
        information in the appropriate fields.</dd>

      <dt>Automatikus proxybeállítás URL</dt>
      <dd>Ha a munkahelyünkön a proxykiszolgálóhoz konfigurációs fájlt használnak, a rendszergazdától kérdezzük meg a fájl URL-címét. Nyomja meg a <em>Frissítés</em> gombot a beállítások betöltéséhez.</dd>
    </dl>
    
    <h4 id="advanced_cache">Gyorsítótár</h4>
    <p>A megjelenített weboldalak egy különleges
gyorsítótármappába kerülnek, hogy legközelebb, amikor ugyanarra a weboldalra látogatunk, az gyorsabban legyen
megjeleníthető.  Itt meghatározhatjuk a gyorsítótár kívánt
      maximális méretét.  You can also immediately clear
      the contents of the cache.</p>
    
    <p><em>Use up to … MB of space for the cache</em><br/>
      Allows you to specify the maximum size, in megabytes, of the cache on
      your computer.</p>
    
    <p><em>Clear Now</em><br/>
      Immediately clears the current contents of the cache, freeing the disk
      space used by the cache.</p>
  
  <h3 id="advanced_update">Frissítés panellap</h3>
    <p>&brandShortName; can check whether updates to installed add-ons or to
      &brandShortName; itself are available.</p>

    <p><em>Frissítések automatikus keresése:</em><br/>
      By default &brandShortName; automatically checks for updates to itself, to
      add-ons, and to search engines so you'll always know you have the most
      up-to-date version. You can change this behavior by changing the
      appropriate checkboxes here.</p>

    <p><em>Amikor frissítések érhetők el a &brandShortName; programhoz:</em></p>

    <dl>
      <dt>Kérdezzen rá, hogy mi a teendő</dt>
      <dd>Updates to &brandShortName; are installed automatically by default.
        Válasszuk ezt a lehetőséget, ha felügyelni
        szeretnénk a frissítéseket az automatizált folyamat helyett.</dd>
      <dt>Frissítések automatikus letöltése és telepítése</dt>
      <dd>Ha ezt a beállítást választjuk, a &brandShortName;-frissítések
        automatikusan letöltésre és telepítésre kerülnek a &brandShortName; következő
        indításakor.  The <em>Warn me if this will disable any
        of my add-ons</em> &pref.singular; determines whether you will be warned
        before the installation of an update which would require an incompatible
        add-on to be disabled because no newer, compatible version exists.  A figyelmeztetés lehetővé teszi a frissítés telepítésének
        elhalasztását. Természetesen ekkor a frissítéssel járó előnyök is elvesznek.<br/><br/>
        Ha minden téma és kiterjesztés kompatibilis vagy szintén frissíthető, a
        &brandShortName;-frissítés telepítésre kerül.  Upon restart
        you will be asked to install any needed add-on updates so that you can
        continue to use them.</dd>
    </dl>

    <p><em>Frissítési előzmények megjelenítése</em><br/>
      A &brandShortName; rögzíti az elvégzett frissítéseket.
      E gombra kattintva megnyithatjuk a telepített frissítések listáját.</p>

    <p><strong>Megjegyzés:</strong>  A &brandShortName;ot <span class="win">rendszergazda joggal</span>
     <span class="noWin">root joggal</span> kell futtatnunk a szoftverfrissítés
      megfelelő működéséhez, de legalábbis írási joggal kell rendelkeznünk a Firefox telepítési könyvtárára.</p>

  <h3 id="advanced_encryption">Encryption tab</h3>

    <h4 id="protocols">Protokollok</h4>
    <p><em>SSL 3.0 használata</em><br/>
      Specifies whether you want to send and receive secured information through
      SSL3 (Secure Sockets Layer, Level 3), a standard protocol for
      communicating securely with web sites.  Disabling it will prevent you from
      visiting some sites.</p>

    <p><em>TLS 1.0 használata</em><br/>
      Specifies whether you want to send and receive secured information through
      TLS (Transport Layer Security), a security standard similar to SSL3
      (Secure Sockets Layer).  Disabling it will prevent you from visiting some
      sites.</p>

    <h4 id="certificates">Tanúsítványok</h4>
    <p><a href="glossary.xhtml#certificate">Certificates</a> help perform
      encryption and decryption of connections to <a
      href="glossary.xhtml#secure_site">secure sites</a>.</p>

    <p><em>Ha a webhely tanúsítványt kér:</em><br/>
      Some servers ask you to identify yourself with a personal certificate. In
      order to do so, they ask &brandShortName; to generate one for you. When
      you visit the site in the future, &brandShortName; selects the certificate
      without asking you by default. If you wish to manually choose a
      certificate (for example, if you have multiple certificates stored for
      multiple web sites), select the <em>Ask me every time</em> &pref.singular;
      and you'll be in complete control of what certificates are being sent to
      web sites while browsing.</p>

    <p><em>Tanúsítványkezelő</em><br/>
      Kattintsunk erre a gombra a tárolt tanúsítványok megjelenítéséhez, újak
        importálásához, régiek törléséhez vagy biztonsági másolat készítéséhez.</p>

    <p><em>Visszavonási listák</em><br/>
      &brandShortName; can use Certificate Revocation Lists (also known as
      CRLs) to ensure that your certificates are always valid.  Ha CRL-t szeretnénk
        hozzáadni a &brandShortName;hoz, vagy csak információra van szükségünk a telepített
        listákról, kattintsunk a <em>Visszavonási listák</em> gombra.</p>

    <p><em>Érvényesítés</em><br/>
      &brandShortName; may ask an OCSP (Online Certificate Status Protocol)
      server to confirm that a certificate is still valid. By default,
      &brandShortName; validates a certificate if the certificate provides an
      OCSP server. Alternately, you can choose an OCSP server against which to
      validate all certificates. Click the <em>Validation</em> button to manage
      these &pref.plural;. Erre valószínűleg csak akkor
lesz szükségünk, ha az internetszolgáltatónk kéri.</p>

    <p><em>Adatvédelmi eszközök</em><br/>
      Az adatvédelmi eszközök titkosítják és visszafejtik a kapcsolatokat,
        és tanúsítványokat valamint jelszavakat tárolnak.  Ha nem a
        &brandShortName; adatvédelmi eszközeit szeretnénk használni,
        kattintsunk az <em>Adatvédelmi eszközök</em> gombra.</p>

<div class="contentsBox"><em>09 October 2007</em></div>
<p>Copyright &copy; &copyright.years; Contributors to the Mozilla Help Viewer Project.</p>

</body>
</html>
